# FINAL PROJECT:
### by Jean Batista & Alex Guerrero

## Primary Objective: 
Use Berry Cox’s price momentum factors to select basket of assets for a long-short portfolio. Backtest your algorithm for 5 years to check for performance of algorithm.

## Background: 
The use of computers and coding allows finance professionals to identify new alpha factors – Alpha factors are ways of quantifying where alpha is being generated by an asset. You will be responsible for using Berry Cox’s list of alpha factors to determine the long/short baskets for your portfolio. But in order to test your code and its asset selections, back-testing must be performed.

### The Requirements:
Step 1: Choose an ETF with a minimum of 100 assets, identify those assets

Step 2: Retrieve historical data for your chosen ETF

Step 3: Calculate the price momentum factors for each asset in your ETF

Step 4: Using the price momentum factors, calculate the monthly z-factor score for each asset

Step 5: Identify long and short baskets (10 to 15 assets in each) using calculated z-factors

Step 6: Create a backtest to validate performance of your algorithm based on monthly restructuring over the previous 5 years.

Step 7: Chart:

    1. Monthly portfolio return bar chart (pos/neg coloring) vs ETF

    2. Monthly return for long picks vs short picks vs ETF

    3. Cumulative portfolio return vs ETF


### Parting Thoughts: 
Remember, we’ll work through all the Python and finance steps you need to understand to be able to calculate alpha factors. That being said, I’m not going to just give you everything – you’ll be responsible for determining the actual function for each factor and whether it’s a positive or negative factor.
Berry Cox’s Alpha Generators are on the next page. I recommend beginning on this project sooner rather than later so you have time to experiment and research how to calculate the specific factors correctly as well as build your backtest.